rolls-royce the maker of bespoke
six-figure luxury cars had its best year
ever in 2014 selling 4063 of them pimp
sat down with Eric Shepard the president
of rolls-royce motors cars North America
found out how Rolls Royces loyal drivers
have propelled it to new heights
historically rolls-royce always has a
very loyal following you know plenty of
repeat buyers once they're in one
they're not going to leave the brand
necessarily Wraith gave us a way to
really expand that and while we don't
ever chase volume you know we still have
the factory that's going to you know
have capacity and we're going to build
cars and one way to do that obviously is
to continue to appeal to new groups that
haven't yet experienced your product so
you bring out a fastback coupe a which
is kind of unlike rolls-royce and have
it talk about the performance and you
know and everything that is about that
car suddenly 65 or 70 percent of the
buyers of that car are new to the brand
and that that was the beauty of that it
really did appeal to people who had
driven belly GTS Ferraris whatever it
may be but it was the first time they
felt like they had a rolls-royce that
truly appealed to them because it was
more performance and feedback oriented
to their driving needs so tell us about
the details of the Wraith engine torque
horsepower all those great things yeah
this is the first time we've ever really
celebrated that in the past it's always
been what is the horsepower of a
rolls-royce well it's adequate this one
is a 6.6 liter twin-turbocharged v-12
624 horsepower 0 to 60 in 4.2 seconds in
a package about 5,500 pounds so this is
a very powerful machine it's not this
small little nimble sports car we don't
build sports cars it's truly a
gentleman's touring car and but one that
performs like no other has ever been
built and the ghost is a series to
correct correct so this past fall in
September we introduced the ghost series
to a very measured update and response
on that car because we don't want to
take a car certainly that someone has
just spent three hundred thousand
dollars on and then two months later
have a radical redesign on it that
wouldn't be appropriate
our brand and our customers so this one
you know really encapsulated all the
latest technology that we have to offer
and really did it in a very sensible way
that you can see that it is still a
ghost but when you put them side by side
you see that little measured response
what about the phantom phantom is you
know really the flagship it's obviously
you know been around since 2003 was the
first car that rolled off for
rolls-royce under the stewardship of BMW
and you know slowly we added a few
models in there with the Drophead coupe
a and the coop a and obviously it has
the extended wheelbase on the on the
sedan that car does have a new phantom
coming in the next few years we're not
ready to talk dates at this point but
the question does come up what's next
for phantom and yes there will use it
higher in the new phantom than you like
I do I can't comment on anything in the
new phantom at this point but there is
one coming it's also a trend that's
going on with rolls-royce that has to do
with bespoke automobiles and it may not
be bespoke everything but you want the
potential customer to get more involved
in the actual creation of the car
bespoke around the globe has been a much
bigger part of our business and when you
look at the US automotive market it's
typically one of instant gratification
and rolls-royce certainly was not immune
to that in the past as our dealers have
gotten more and more involved in
coaching our customers and educating
them about the opportunities to truly
customize their car we've seen that
continue to grow so rather than the
customer come in and just want to take
one home today they commissioned the car
they even come over to Goodwood to our
facility over in the UK meet with our
designers and they start to truly change
the interiors work on custom exterior
colors and combinations you know whether
it's a wood you know from an estate that
they own you know we can incorporate
that into the car so there's all kinds
of things that really the imagination is
unlimited and when the designers and the
customers get together like this that's
where the true bespoke opportunities you
know come to light if there's a customer
out there who says you know I really
would love our roles but I've got to
have that room to put the groceries I
need that back to open up anything in an
SUV
question for us a couple of things on
that we're not a sports car company
we're not a utility car company so an
SUV really while the market is appealing
it's not necessarily an SUV market for
us but there is something there that our
customers do want a little more of that
capability they're asking for it we've
challenged our designers and our
engineers to come up with some options
and some designs for that and we've
we've moved through several of these
stages we're not yet ready to say that
we're bringing one to market because we
haven't satisfied all the questions to
us that say this is a rolls-royce total
annual production what are we talking
about just over 4,000 just and it's a
little over four thousand this past year
4063 and again the North American market
was by far the number one market in the
world for that and we anticipate some
moderate growth again in the coming year
we we don't chase volume so it's all
about what our customers and our dealers
order from us and we do see some
moderate growth going forward all right
now I'd like to get to know you a little
bit better and I'm wondering if you can
describe if you could drive any
rolls-royce oh I pejorative rolls what
would the drive be where do you want to
go I would be driving up and down PCH I
just you know when you want to go from
Los Angeles iska all the way up and I
would prefer it in a drop head coupe a
that truly is that the car that is
perfect for that drive what was the
first car that you ever drove well the
first cloned a 1976 Caprice estate
station wagon so it's been a journey
it's been a bit of a jerk yeah in you
know I've had the pleasure along the way
to represent some fantastic brands